In this section, we're going to start working on the Node.js web application.
If you are not familiar with Node.js or you don't know any JavaScript and you don't want to know any
JavaScript, that is totally fine.
You can pause the video right now, skip to the next section where I will have a text link for you to
download the two files that you're going to need.
So totally fine if you don't want to write any JavaScript at all.
Otherwise, stick around and we'll get started on this tiny web application.
So to get started, I'm going to first flip back over to my terminal.
You'll notice that I'm still inside of that Redis image directory.
I'm going to go up one directory and then I'll make a new project folder and we will call this How about
simple web?
Because it's going to be a rather simple, straightforward web application.
I'll then change into that directory and then I'm going to again start up my code editor inside there.
Now a quick reminder, I was able to use the code command right here because I've set up Visual Studio
code to be executed for my command line.
So if you don't have that set up, totally fine.
All you really need to do right now is open up your code editor based on that simple web directory that
we just created.
Then inside of here, we're going to create first a file called Package.
Dot JSON inside this file, we're going to put together a little bit of configuration to describe how
our node application is going to work.
Exactly.
I'm going to first begin by placing a set of curly braces.
And then inside there, I'm going to place a key wrapped in double quotes.
And the first section we're going to put together is going to list out all of the different dependencies
that our application needs to run correctly.
Notice how I'm wrapping the word dependencies inside of a set of double quotes.
I've got a colon afterwards, and then I open up a curly brace object.
Then inside that set of curly braces, I will put down another set of double quotes.
And I'm going to say that in order for our application to work correctly, we need a copy of Express.
I'll then put down a colon and then for the version, I'm just going to put a star to say we can use
any version of Express out there.
We don't care.
After that, I'm then going to put a comma on this line right here and then I'll add in one more section.
This is going to be a section that we will call scripts, and this will contain some of the different
scripts that you can run to get our application up and running.
I'm going to open up another set of curly braces, just like we did a second ago.
I'll put a set of double quotes and we're going to create a script called Start.
Any time that someone runs the START script, we are going to execute Node Index.
JS Like, so this right here is going to be what ultimately starts up our server and gets it running.
All right, so that's it inside of the package JSON file.
So we have specified a dependency and we've created a single script.
I'm now going to make sure that I save the file.
And then I'm going to close it and create a second file inside the same directory.
And the second file I will call index JS.
So inside of here, we're going to first begin by requiring in the Express library that we just marked
as a dependency.
I'll then use the Express library to create a new app like so.
And then we are going to set up one single root handler.
We're going to say app get.
I'll pass in a string with a forward slash as a second argument, I'll pass in an arrow function that
gets called with a request in response object and open up a function body after placing a function arrow.
Then inside of here we'll do resend and we're going to send back a message of Hi there.
So now any time someone visits the root root of our application, we are going to immediately send back
a string that says simply, Hi there.
And so ultimately when we run our application, my expectation is that in the browser we should be able
to visit this running web application and see.
Hi there up here on the screen.
Now, the last thing we have to do is set up our application to listen on a port.
So down at the bottom of the file, I'll say listen and I'll specify the port that we are going to be
listening to as 8080 as a second argument.
I'll pass in an arrow function like so.
And then finally, after the app starts listening to this port correctly, we will print out a little
message that says Listening on port 82, 80, like so.
And then I'm going to make sure that I save this file.
All right.
So that's pretty much it.
We've got our packaged JSON file that defines some configuration around our project, and we've got
the indexed JS file that contains the actual server logic.
So we're going to take a quick pause right here.
When we come back, the next section, we're going to start talking about how we're going to put together
our Docker file.
So a quick break and I'll see you in just a minute.